# Laravel 11 REST API Sample Project

This project serves as a sample implementation of a RESTful API using Laravel 11. It showcases the usage of the repository pattern, PHPUnit testing, and Swagger for API documentation.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

- **PHP**: At least version 8.2.4
- **COMPOSER**: At least version 2.5.5
- **MariaDB**: At least 10.4.22
- **Node.JS**: At least version 20.11.0
- **XAMPP**: Latest version
- **GIT BASH**: At least version 2.41.0.windows.3
- **NPM**: At least version 10.5.0

## Installation

To install the project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/sulitjomar/laravel-11-rest-api-sample.git
    ```

2. Set up your environment configuration:

    - Copy the `.env.example` file and rename it to `.env` or just run the command then configure your database credentials:

        ```bash
        cp .env.example .env
        ```

3. Run the command:

    ```bash
    composer install && composer run dev
    ```

## Usage

After setting up the project, you can utilize it in the following ways:

1. **API Endpoint Interaction**: Utilize the defined API endpoints for various CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on resources.
2. **PHPUnit Testing**: Verify the functionality of the API by running PHPUnit tests. Execute `php artisan test` in your terminal to run the tests.
3. **Swagger Documentation**: Explore the API documentation generated by Swagger at [http://localhost:8000/api/documentation](http://localhost:8000/api/documentation).

## Contributing

To contribute to this project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Create a new branch:
    - For a new feature or enhancement: `git checkout -b feat/<feature_name>`
    - For an issue or bug resolution: `git checkout -b fix/<fix_name>`
    - For maintenance or non-functional tasks or config tasks: `git checkout -b chore/<chore_name>`
3. Make your changes.
4. Commit your changes:
    - For a new feature or enhancement: `git commit -m 'feat: <commit_message>'`
    - For an issue or bug resolution: `git commit -m 'fix: <commit_message>'`
    - For maintenance or non-functional  or config tasks: `git commit -m 'chore: <commit_message>'`
5. Push to the branch: `git push origin <branch_name>`
6. Create a new Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms provided by Jomar Sulit. For details, see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file.

## Contact

If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to contact Jomar Sulit at sulitjomar@gmail.com.
